# Exercise 2 - Creating your first test


### Where should you put your tests?

Cypress tests are located in the `e2e` directory. 

Delete the contents of the e2e directory that Cypress scaffolded for us and create a file named `journey_test.cy.js` in its place. This will contain our service user journey test.


 ### Exercise

We are going to implement a test in the newly created `journey_test.cy.js` file that asserts we can visit the service we are testing: `https://record-a-goose-sighting.herokuapp.com/steps/start`. 

Add the following to your new `journey_test.cy.js` file. 

```javascript
/// <reference types="cypress" />


it('goose finder app happy path journey test', () => {
    
});

```

The first line is a triple slash directive and enables IntelliSense within your IDE provided it supports TypeScript (VSCode and Webstorm both do by default).

The `cy` object is a built-in object in Cypress, and is used to call all the Cypress APIs. With IntelliSense enabled you should be able to see the availble functionality of Cypress by typing `cy.` within our test block. 
For this exercise we want Cypress to navigate to our service under test, we do that via the `visit` function. The function takes a string argument representing the URL of our service: `https://record-a-goose-sighting.herokuapp.com/steps/start`.

Once you have added the function call, run the `journey_test.cy.js` via the Cypress test runner.


### Conclusion 

Take a look at the Cypress runner following the successful implementation of a page visit.

Notice a few things:

- The command log shows a new VISIT action
- Our web app under test is rendered in the right hand pane
- Cypress has automatically asserted we are able to visit the url
- The VISIT displays a blue pending state until the page finishes loading.