# Exercise 9 - Introducing Cypress Testing Library

Now we have learned about Cypress we're going to make use of an additional library called the `Cypress Testing Library` (https://testing-library.com/docs/cypress-testing-library/intro).

The library is based upon the DOM testing library which encourages tests that avoid implementation detail, instead focussing on the system from the user's perspective.

Let's refactor our existing tests to closer mimic our service being used as a user would, giving us confidence the journey can be completed.

### Exercise

This current project already has the Cypress Testing Library installed via our 'package.json'.

Cypress Testing Library extends Cypress's cy commands so we need to add this line into our projects cypress/support/commands.js:

```javascript
import "@testing-library/cypress/add-commands";
```

Save the 'commands.js' file, now you can make use of Cypress Testing Library functions via cy in our code.

> Our service under test currently has one button per screen which means we can easily identify the element by it's class. However, this is an implementation detail which can increase in complexity as the number of elements on screen increases.

Instead of searching for elements via their DOM ids or classes, let's try and find the 'Start now' link on the first screen of our journey as the user would. By interacting with the button that reads 'Start now'.

Amend our `journey_test.cy.js` and replace the initial click of the 'Start now' link to the following Cypress Testing Library implementation:

```javascript
cy.findByRole('button', {name: /Start now/i}).click()
```

The `findByRole` function queries every element that is exposed in the [Accessibility tree](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Accessibility_tree). This should be your top priortiy selector for just about everything (if you can't get access something via this technique, it's possible your UI is not accessible).

The function takes a string representation of an ARIA Role. Check the (list of roles)[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques#roles] and most often it is used with the `name` option. The name option takes either a string or regex. 

In our example we look for a button element that contains the substring 'Start now', ignoring the case (the case doesn't prevent the user from completing their journey, so we don't want our tests being flaky by suddenly failing if a developer changes the case to 'Start Now')

>There are other availble functions in the Cypress Testing Library to fall back on if your UI is not accessible such as `findByText`. But fixing the UI to be accessible is the preferred solution. 

See the (Cypress Testing Library docs)[https://testing-library.com/docs/cypress-testing-library/intro#examples] for more details.

### Conclusion
 By identifying the HTML elements via their role our queries reflect the experience of visual/mouse users as well as those using assistive technologies. We get accessibility testing and validation the content of the button/link is visible to the user all in one. It also makes our tests human readable as they reflect text that is actually on the screen rather than CSS id/classes. 😁

